Hi friends
In this video we're going to learn the
ternary operator in C.
So the ternary operator is so called because it will take three arguments
and see the syntax here argument1?
argument2:argument3; and it
can be used instead of if else statement
And these two codes here works exactly the same. And
the working of the ternary operator is like we
have the first argument as the comparison statement
So the comparison will be done and if it returns
true, second argument will be executed and if the comparison
returns false, then the third argument will be executed.
So let us see an example programme here and inside
the main function We are declaring an integer variable
num and we ask the user to enter a number
and it is read to variable num
So suppose user enters 10 here and it is stored
to num And then we have this ternary operator
here numless than 0? printf(negative) : printf(positive)
so if the number entered is less than zero
then second argument printf(negative) will be executed
otherwise third argument Printf (positive) will be executed
So 10 is not less than zero
So it skips the second argument and executes the third one
and prints "Positive" and that's all. And if the
number entered is -2 then num is less than
zero
So comparison returns true and the second argument is executed
and it will print "Negative"
So this is how it works.
And now the same programme can be returned using if
else statement like this. Again we have the main function
and we have the integer variable declaration for num and
user enters a number 10 and it is read
to variable num and then we have the if else
here
So there is if num less than zero and 10
is not less than zero
So the condition failed and it goes to the else
part and print "Positive"
That's it
Now let us see if the number entered by user
is -2 and that is stored to num then
when the If condition is checked, it is true
So it prints "Negative". So both the programmes work exactly
the same
So that is why we say the ternary operator
can be used instead of if else statement So that's all and thank you for watching this video.